how-to/maintain: update slow log document (#1489)
pingcap/docs: dev/how-to/maintain/identify-slow-queries.md

title: Identify Slow Queries
summary: Use the slow query log to identify problematic SQL statements.
category: how-to
aliases: ['/docs/sql/slow-query/']
---

# Identify Slow Queries

> To help users identify slow queries, analyze and improve performance of SQL execution, TiDB outputs statements whose execution time exceeds [slow-threshold](/reference/configuration/tidb-server/configuration-file.md#slow-threshold) (The default value is 300 milliseconds) to [slow-query-file](/reference/configuration/tidb-server/configuration-file.md#slow-query-file) (The default value is "tidb-slow.log").

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To help users identify slow queries, analyze and improve the performance of SQL execution, TiDB outputs the statements whose execution time exceeds [slow-threshold](/reference/configuration/tidb-server/configuration-file.md#slow-threshold) (The default value is 300 milliseconds) to [slow-query-file](/reference/configuration/tidb-server/configuration-file.md#slow-query-file) (The default value is "tidb-slow.log").
```

> ## Usage example

Reviewer: This part is not aligned with https://github.com/pingcap/docs-cn/pull/1752. Please make corresponding changes in the code block.

title: Identify Slow Queries
summary: Use the slow query log to identify problematic SQL statements.
category: how-to

> aliases: ['/docs/sql/slow-query/']

Reviewer 2: Please remove this line because we already add this aliases to `v3.0`.

## Usage example

```sql
# Time: 2019-08-14T09:26:59.487776265+08:00
# Txn_start_ts: 410450924122144769
# User: root@127.0.0.1
# Conn_ID: 3086
# Query_time: 1.527627037
# Process_time: 0.07 Request_count: 1 Total_keys: 131073 Process_keys: 131072 Prewrite_time: 0.335415029 Commit_time: 0.032175429 Get_commit_ts_time: 0.000177098 Local_latch_wait_time: 0.106869448 Write_keys: 131072 Write_size: 3538944 Prewrite_region: 1
# DB: test
# Is_internal: false
# Digest: 50a2e32d2abbd6c1764b1b7f2058d428ef2712b029282b776beb9506a365c0f1
# Stats: t:pseudo
# Num_cop_tasks: 1
# Cop_proc_avg: 0.07 Cop_proc_p90: 0.07 Cop_proc_max: 0.07 Cop_proc_addr: 172.16.5.87:20171
# Cop_wait_avg: 0 Cop_wait_p90: 0 Cop_wait_max: 0 Cop_wait_addr: 172.16.5.87:20171
# Mem_max: 525211
# Succ: false
insert into t select * from t;
```

## Fields description

> **Note:**
>
> The unit of all the following time fields in the slow query log is **"second"**.

> Slow Query Basics:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Slow query basics:
```

## Fields description

> **Note:**
>
> The unit of all the following time fields in the slow query log is **"second"**.

Slow Query Basics:

* `Time`: The print time of log.

> * `Query_time`: Indicates the execution time of this statement.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `Query_time`: The execution time of a statement.
```

* `Query`: A SQL statement. `Query` is not printed in the slow log, but the corresponding field is called `Query` after the slow log is mapped to the memory table.
* `Digest`: The fingerprint of the SQL statement.

> * `Txn_start_ts`: The start timestamp and the unique ID of the transaction. You can use this value to `grep` the transaction-related logs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `Txn_start_ts`: The start timestamp and the unique ID of a transaction. You can use this value to search the transaction-related logs.
```

> * `Is_internal`: Whether the SQL statement is TiDB internal. `true` indicates that the SQL statement is executed internally in TiDB, while `false` indicates that the SQL statement is executed by the user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `Is_internal`: Whether the SQL statement is TiDB internal. `true` indicates that the SQL statement is executed internally in TiDB and `false` indicates that the SQL statement is executed by the user.
```

* `Index_ids`: The IDs of the indexes involved in the statement.

> * `Succ`: Whether the statement executes successfully.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `Succ`: Whether a statement is executed successfully.
```

> * `Backoff_time`: The waiting time before retry when this statement encounters errors that require a retry. The common errors as such include: `lock occurs`, `Region split`, and `tikv server is busy`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `Backoff_time`: The waiting time before retry when a statement encounters errors that require a retry. The common errors as such include: `lock occurs`, `Region split`, and `tikv server is busy`.
```

Memory usage fields:

> * `Memory_max`: The maximum memory space used during the execution period of this SQL statement (the unit is byte).

Reviewer: I don't think "this" or ''the" is accurate here because the fields do not refer to a specific SQL statement.
```suggestion
* `Memory_max`: The maximum memory space used during the execution period of a SQL statement (the unit is byte).
```

User fields:

> * `User`: The name of the user who executes this statement.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `User`: The name of the user who executes a statement.
```

> * `Conn_ID`: The Connection ID (session ID). For example, you can use the keyword `con:3` to `grep` the log whose session ID is 3.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `Conn_ID`: The Connection ID (session ID). For example, you can use the keyword `con:3` to search the log whose session ID is 3.
```

* `DB`: The current database.

TiKV Coprocessor Task fields:

* `Request_count`: The number of Coprocessor requests that this statement sends.
* `Total_keys`: The number of keys that Coprocessor has scanned.

> * `Process_time`: The total processing time of this SQL statement in TiKV. Because the data is sent to TiKV concurrently, this value may exceed `Query_time`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `Process_time`: The total processing time of a SQL statement in TiKV. Because data is sent to TiKV concurrently, this value might exceed `Query_time`.
```

> * `Wait_time`: The total waiting time of this statement in TiKV. Because the Coprocessor of TiKV runs a limited number of threads, requests might queue up when all threads of Coprocessor are working. When a request in the queue takes a long time to process, the waiting time of the subsequent requests will increase.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `Wait_time`: The total waiting time of a statement in TiKV. Because the Coprocessor of TiKV runs a limited number of threads, requests might queue up when all threads of Coprocessor are working. When a request in the queue takes a long time to process, the waiting time of the subsequent requests increases.
```

> **Note:**
>
> Every time you query the `SLOW_QUERY` table, TiDB reads and parses the current slow query log.

## Query example of SLOW_QUERY

### Top-N slow queries

Query the Top 2 slow queries of users. `Is_internal=false` means excluding slow queries inside TiDB and only querying slow queries of users.

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
select query_time, query
from information_schema.slow_query
where is_internal = false
order by query_time desc
limit 2;
```

Usage example

```
+--------------+------------------------------------------------------------------+
| query_time   | query                                                            |
+--------------+------------------------------------------------------------------+
| 12.77583857  | select * from t_slim, t_wide where t_slim.c0=t_wide.c0;          |
|  0.734982725 | select t0.c0, t1.c1 from t_slim t0, t_wide t1 where t0.c0=t1.c0; |
+--------------+------------------------------------------------------------------+
```

### Query the Top-N slow queries of the `test` user

> In the following example, we query the slow queries executed by the `test` user, and sort the first two in reverse order of execution time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the following example,  the slow queries executed by the `test` user are queried, and the first two results are displayed in reverse order of execution time.
```

```sql
select query_time, query, user
from information_schema.slow_query
where is_internal = false
  and user = "test"
order by query_time desc
limit 2;
```

Usage example

```
+-------------+------------------------------------------------------------------+----------------+
| Query_time  | query                                                            | user           |
+-------------+------------------------------------------------------------------+----------------+
| 0.676408014 | select t0.c0, t1.c1 from t_slim t0, t_wide t1 where t0.c0=t1.c1; | test           |
+-------------+------------------------------------------------------------------+----------------+
```

### Query similar slow queries with the same SQL fingerprints

> After querying the Top-N SQL statements, you can continue to query similar slow queries using the same fingerprints.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After querying the Top-N SQL statements, continue to query similar slow queries using the same fingerprints.
```

> Step 1: Acquire Top-N slow queries and the corresponding SQL fingerprints.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Acquire Top-N slow queries and the corresponding SQL fingerprints.
```

> {{< copyable "sql" >}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    {{< copyable "sql" >}}
```

Reviewer: Please also indent 4 spaces in the following content under the ordered list.

```sql
select query_time, query, digest
from information_schema.slow_query
where is_internal = false
order by query_time desc
limit 1;
```

Usage example

```
+-------------+-----------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------+
| query_time  | query                       | digest                                                           |
+-------------+-----------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------+
| 0.302558006 | select * from t1 where a=1; | 4751cb6008fda383e22dacb601fde85425dc8f8cf669338d55d944bafb46a6fa |
+-------------+-----------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------+
```

> Step 2: Query similar slow queries with the fingerprints.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Query similar slow queries with the fingerprints.
```

### Parse other TiDB slow log files

TiDB uses the session variable `tidb_slow_query_file` to control the files to be read and parsed when querying `INFORMATION_SCHEMA.SLOW_QUERY`. You can query the contents of other slow query log files by modifying the value of the session variable.

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
set tidb_slow_query_file = "/path-to-log/tidb-slow.log"
```

### Parse TiDB slow logs with `pt-query-digest`

> You can use `pt-query-digest` to parse TiDB slow logs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use `pt-query-digest` to parse TiDB slow logs.
```

> **Note:**
>

> > It is recommended to use `pt-query-digest` 3.0.13 and above.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> It is recommended to use `pt-query-digest` 3.0.13 or later version.
```
